src/site/adoc/developmentGuide.adoc, before:

:toc:

= Development Guide

`commandunit` is developed on Linux Platform (Ubuntu22.04)

== Requirements

- bash
- bashcov
- docker + dockerd
  - link:https://github.com/christian-korneck/docker-pushrm[docker-pushrm plugin]
- Ubuntu 22.04

== `build.sh`

Building, testing, generating doc, and releasing can be done with a script `build.sh`.
It takes an array of subcommands.
Subcommands can be classified into two groups, which are "grouped subcommands" and "basic subcommands".
A "grouped subcommand" is interpreted as a sequence of subcommands and executed by `build.sh` one by one.

If you don't specify any subcommand:

[source]
----
$ ./build.sh
----

It will be interpreted that `<<BUILD>>` grouped subcommand is specified.

=== Basic Subcommands

==== Parameters

A basic subcommand can take parameters.
There are three targets: `source`, `snapshot`, and `release`.
`source` means that the subcommand handles source files.
For instance, if the target is `source`, the `test` subcommand uses source files for test.
If it is `snapshot`, a snapshot docker image will be used.
If `release`, a docker image to be released will be used.

==== `build`

Builds a docker image from a source.

Only `snapshot` and `release` can be specified for the first parameter.

==== `clean`

Removes all the working files generated by this build script.
Note that files created by `generate-src` will not be removed since they are a part of the source tree, not working files.

This subcommand doesn't take any parameters.

==== `dummy`

This subcommand does nothing.
Useful for testing a change made in `build.sh`.

This subcommand doesn't take any parameters.

==== `fail`

This subcommand fails always.
Useful for testing a change made in `build.sh`.

This subcommand doesn't take any parameters.

==== `coverage`

This command executes test and generates a coverage report.
Generated coverage report will be found under `out/testreport-coverage` directory.

This subcommand doesn't take any parameters.

==== `doc`

Generates documentation under working directory from asciidoc (.adoc) files under `OUTDIR/site/adoc` directory, whose contents are copied from `src/site/adoc` directory.
The generated documentation (`.html` files) will be found under `OUTDIR/doc` directory.

This subcommand doesn't take any parameters.

==== `generate-src`

A subcommand to generate "source" files based on project information such as the current target development version, repository URL, etc.
Typically executed at the last of `RELEASE` subcommand.

This subcommand doesn't take any parameters.

==== `prepare`

Copies the source tree (`SRCDIR`) to the working directory (`OUTDIR`).

This subcommand doesn't take any parameters.

==== `publish-doc`

Pushes the generated documents to a branch of the git repository, the branch (`.repo.documentation.docbranch` attribute) and repository URL (`.repo.url` attribute) can be specified in `build_info.json`.


This subcommand doesn't take any parameters.

==== `push`

Pushes a docker image to the docker repository.

The first parameter specifies `snapshot` or `released` image to be pushed.


==== `test`

Executes unit test suites stored under `out/test/scripts`.

The first parameter specifies the type of the `commandunit` executable used for the test execution.
`source` means the scripts before dockerized,
`snapshot` is a docker image for snapshot, and `release` is a docker image to be released.


==== `release-precheck`

Performs a "pre-check" for the entire release procedure.
It checks if there is no uncommitted changes, un-pushed commits, and you are on the `main` branch.


==== `release-postmortem`

Some files in the source tree of `commandunit` should be generated in an automated way, otherwise they will become redundant.


=== Grouped Subcommands

Grouped subcommands do not take any parameters.

==== BUILD

A basic "build" command.
It generates documentation and execute tests.

[source]
----
$ ./build.sh BUILD
----

Included Subcommands:: `clean`, `prepare`, `doc`, and `test`

==== DOC
[source]
----
$ ./build.sh DOC
----

A subcommand to build documentation under working directory.
Generated HTML files will be found under `out/doc` directory.


Included Subcommands:: `clean`, `prepare`, and `doc`

==== TEST
[source]
----
$ ./build.sh TEST
----

Executes the test suite.


Included Subcommands:: `clean`, `prepare`, and `test`

==== COVERAGE

[source]
----
$ ./build.sh COVERAGE
----

Included Subcommands:: `clean`, `prepare`, and `coverage`

==== PACKAGE

[source]
----
$ ./build.sh PACKAGE
----

Included Subcommands:: `clean prepare`, `test:::true`, `build:snapshot`, and `test:snapshot::true`

==== DEPLOY

[source]
----
$ ./build.sh DEPLOY
----

Included Subcommands:: `PACKAGE` and `push:snapshot`

==== RELEASE

[source]
----
$ ./build.sh RELEASE
----

A subcommand for releasing.
Note that a check will be done at the beginning of this subcommand.
If something not pushed on your local, this subcommand fails (`release-precheck`).
Also, note that documentation is not published by this subcommand, and you need to do it separately using `PUBLISH_DOC` subcommand.


Included Subcommands:: `clean`, `release-precheck`, `prepare`, `test:::true`, `build:release`, `test:release::true`, `push:release`, and `release-postmortem`.

==== PUBLISH_DOC

[source]
----
$ ./build.sh PUBLISH_DOC
----

== Directory Structure

----
PROJECT_BASEDIR/                                      <1>
  buildtools/          A directory for build tools.
  out/                 A directory for working files. <2>
    doc/                                              <3>
    main/
      scripts/                                        <4>
    site/
      adoc/                                           <5>
  src/                 A directory for source tree    <6>
    docker/
    main/
    site/
    test/
  build.sh             A build script for this project.
  build_info.json      A project definition file.

----
- <1>: project base directory.
- <2>: Specified by environment variable `OUTDIR`.
- <3>: `DOCDIR`.
- <4>: `EXEC_BASEDIR`.
- <5>: `DOC_SRCDIR`.
- <6>: Specified by environment variable `SRCDIR`.


== `build_info.json`

[source, json]
.`build_info.json` example
----
{
  "projectName": "commandunit",
  "homepage": "https://github.com/dakusui/commandunit",
  "docker": {
    "user": "dakusui",
    "hostFsRootMountPoint": "/var/lib/commandunit"
  },
  "version": {
    "latestReleased": {
      "major": 1,
      "minor": 25
    },
    "target": {
      "major": 1,
      "minor": 26
    }
  },
  "repo": {
    "url": "https://github.com/dakusui/commandunit.git",
    "documentation": {
      "docbranch": "docs"
    },
    "release": {
      "branch": "main"
    }
  }
}
----


== Build-time Environment Variables

`LATEST_RELEASED_VERSION`:: The most recent released version of this product.
`TARGET_VERSION`:: The version currently under development.
`PROJECT_NAME`:: The name of this project.
`PROJECT_BASEDIR`;; The path to the root directory of this project.
`HOMEPAGE`:: The URL of the project's homepage.
`SRCDIR`:: The path to the source directory (i.e., `${PROJECT_BASEDIR}/src`)
`OUTDIR`: The path to the working directory (i.e., `${PROJECT_BASEDIR}/out`)
`EXEC_BASEDIR`:: The directory that holds executables of this product during the build-time. (i.e., `${PROJECT_BASEDIR}/out/main/scripts`)
`DOCDIR`:: The directory to store generated documentations. (i.e., `${PROJECT_BASEDIR}/out/doc`)
`DOCSRCDIR`:: The directory to store documentation source files during a build.  (i.e., `${PROJECT_BASEDIR}/out/doc`)
`DOCKER_REPO_NAME`:: A name of docker repository name. (i.e., `{.docker.user}/{.project.name}`).
`BUILD_HOSTFSROOT_MOUNTPOINT`:: A path under which the root directory of the host side file system "seems" mounted.
By prefixing this path to a host side path, you can calculate the corresponding path of it inside the docker container.

== Known Problems

- A build on macOS halts during `test`.

Commit message:

Add description about branches and tags in build process guide.

src/site/adoc/developmentGuide.adoc, after:

:toc:

= Development Guide

`commandunit` is developed on Linux Platform (Ubuntu22.04)

== Requirements

- bash
- bashcov
- docker + dockerd
  - link:https://github.com/christian-korneck/docker-pushrm[docker-pushrm plugin]
- Ubuntu 22.04

== `build.sh`

Building, testing, generating doc, and releasing can be done with a script `build.sh`.
It takes an array of subcommands.
Subcommands can be classified into two groups, which are "grouped subcommands" and "basic subcommands".
A "grouped subcommand" is interpreted as a sequence of subcommands and executed by `build.sh` one by one.

If you don't specify any subcommand:

[source]
----
$ ./build.sh
----

It will be interpreted that `<<BUILD>>` grouped subcommand is specified.

=== Basic Subcommands

==== Parameters

A basic subcommand can take parameters.
There are three targets: `source`, `snapshot`, and `release`.
`source` means that the subcommand handles source files.
For instance, if the target is `source`, the `test` subcommand uses source files for test.
If it is `snapshot`, a snapshot docker image will be used.
If `release`, a docker image to be released will be used.

==== `build`

Builds a docker image from a source.

Only `snapshot` and `release` can be specified for the first parameter.

==== `clean`

Removes all the working files generated by this build script.
Note that files created by `generate-src` will not be removed since they are a part of the source tree, not working files.

This subcommand doesn't take any parameters.

==== `dummy`

This subcommand does nothing.
Useful for testing a change made in `build.sh`.

This subcommand doesn't take any parameters.

==== `fail`

This subcommand fails always.
Useful for testing a change made in `build.sh`.

This subcommand doesn't take any parameters.

==== `coverage`

This command executes test and generates a coverage report.
Generated coverage report will be found under `out/testreport-coverage` directory.

This subcommand doesn't take any parameters.

==== `doc`

Generates documentation under working directory from asciidoc (.adoc) files under `OUTDIR/site/adoc` directory, whose contents are copied from `src/site/adoc` directory.
The generated documentation (`.html` files) will be found under `OUTDIR/doc` directory.

This subcommand doesn't take any parameters.

==== `generate-src`

A subcommand to generate "source" files based on project information such as the current target development version, repository URL, etc.
Typically executed at the last of `RELEASE` subcommand.

This subcommand doesn't take any parameters.

==== `prepare`

Copies the source tree (`SRCDIR`) to the working directory (`OUTDIR`).

This subcommand doesn't take any parameters.

==== `publish-doc`

Pushes the generated documents to a branch of the git repository, the branch (`.repo.documentation.docbranch` attribute) and repository URL (`.repo.url` attribute) can be specified in `build_info.json`.


This subcommand doesn't take any parameters.

==== `push`

Pushes a docker image to the docker repository.

The first parameter specifies `snapshot` or `released` image to be pushed.


==== `test`

Executes unit test suites stored under `out/test/scripts`.

The first parameter specifies the type of the `commandunit` executable used for the test execution.
`source` means the scripts before dockerized,
`snapshot` is a docker image for snapshot, and `release` is a docker image to be released.


==== `release-precheck`

Performs a "pre-check" for the entire release procedure.
It checks if there is no uncommitted changes, un-pushed commits, and you are on the `main` branch.


==== `release-postmortem`

Some files in the source tree of `commandunit` should be generated in an automated way, otherwise they will become redundant.


=== Grouped Subcommands

Grouped subcommands do not take any parameters.

==== BUILD

A basic "build" command.
It generates documentation and execute tests.

[source]
----
$ ./build.sh BUILD
----

Included Subcommands:: `clean`, `prepare`, `doc`, and `test`

==== DOC
[source]
----
$ ./build.sh DOC
----

A subcommand to build documentation under working directory.
Generated HTML files will be found under `out/doc` directory.


Included Subcommands:: `clean`, `prepare`, and `doc`

==== TEST
[source]
----
$ ./build.sh TEST
----

Executes the test suite.


Included Subcommands:: `clean`, `prepare`, and `test`

==== COVERAGE

[source]
----
$ ./build.sh COVERAGE
----

Included Subcommands:: `clean`, `prepare`, and `coverage`

==== PACKAGE

[source]
----
$ ./build.sh PACKAGE
----

Included Subcommands:: `clean prepare`, `test:::true`, `build:snapshot`, and `test:snapshot::true`

==== DEPLOY

[source]
----
$ ./build.sh DEPLOY
----

Included Subcommands:: `PACKAGE` and `push:snapshot`

==== RELEASE

[source]
----
$ ./build.sh RELEASE
----

A subcommand for releasing.
Note that a check will be done at the beginning of this subcommand.
If something not pushed on your local, this subcommand fails (`release-precheck`).
Also, note that documentation is not published by this subcommand, and you need to do it separately using `PUBLISH_DOC` subcommand.


Included Subcommands:: `clean`, `release-precheck`, `prepare`, `test:::true`, `build:release`, `test:release::true`, `push:release`, and `release-postmortem`.

==== PUBLISH_DOC

[source]
----
$ ./build.sh PUBLISH_DOC
----

== Repository

The source code repository of `commandunit` is found https://github.com/dakusui/commandunit[here].

=== Tags

Each released commit has a tag: `v{Major Version}.{Minor Version}`.
For the commit whose "wrapper script" was verified most recently has a tag `wrapper-verified`.

=== Branches

The documentation is stored in `docs` branch and exposed to the public through https://dakusui.github.io/commandunit/[dakusui.github.io/commandunit].
Check also <<PUBLISH_DOC>> subcommand of the build script.


== Directory Structure

----
PROJECT_BASEDIR/                                      <1>
  buildtools/          A directory for build tools.
  out/                 A directory for working files. <2>
    doc/                                              <3>
    main/
      scripts/                                        <4>
    site/
      adoc/                                           <5>
  src/                 A directory for source tree    <6>
    docker/
    main/
    site/
    test/
  build.sh             A build script for this project.
  build_info.json      A project definition file.

----
- <1>: project base directory.
- <2>: Specified by environment variable `OUTDIR`.
- <3>: `DOCDIR`.
- <4>: `EXEC_BASEDIR`.
- <5>: `DOC_SRCDIR`.
- <6>: Specified by environment variable `SRCDIR`.


== `build_info.json`

[source, json]
.`build_info.json` example
----
{
  "projectName": "commandunit",
  "homepage": "https://github.com/dakusui/commandunit",
  "docker": {
    "user": "dakusui",
    "hostFsRootMountPoint": "/var/lib/commandunit"
  },
  "version": {
    "latestReleased": {
      "major": 1,
      "minor": 25
    },
    "target": {
      "major": 1,
      "minor": 26
    }
  },
  "repo": {
    "url": "https://github.com/dakusui/commandunit.git",
    "documentation": {
      "docbranch": "docs"
    },
    "release": {
      "branch": "main"
    }
  }
}
----


== Build-time Environment Variables

`LATEST_RELEASED_VERSION`:: The most recent released version of this product.
`TARGET_VERSION`:: The version currently under development.
`PROJECT_NAME`:: The name of this project.
`PROJECT_BASEDIR`;; The path to the root directory of this project.
`HOMEPAGE`:: The URL of the project's homepage.
`SRCDIR`:: The path to the source directory (i.e., `${PROJECT_BASEDIR}/src`)
`OUTDIR`: The path to the working directory (i.e., `${PROJECT_BASEDIR}/out`)
`EXEC_BASEDIR`:: The directory that holds executables of this product during the build-time. (i.e., `${PROJECT_BASEDIR}/out/main/scripts`)
`DOCDIR`:: The directory to store generated documentations. (i.e., `${PROJECT_BASEDIR}/out/doc`)
`DOCSRCDIR`:: The directory to store documentation source files during a build.  (i.e., `${PROJECT_BASEDIR}/out/doc`)
`DOCKER_REPO_NAME`:: A name of docker repository name. (i.e., `{.docker.user}/{.project.name}`).
`BUILD_HOSTFSROOT_MOUNTPOINT`:: A path under which the root directory of the host side file system "seems" mounted.
By prefixing this path to a host side path, you can calculate the corresponding path of it inside the docker container.

== Known Problems

- A build on macOS halts during `test`.
